{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red251\green2\blue7;\red0\green0\blue0;\red251\green0\blue7;
\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c12195\c0;
\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 \
New Links\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
You can add new knots and links with this. The supported links are\
\
\ul Torus links:\ulnone  The 
\f1\i p
\f0\i0  value is the number of strands. Both 
\f1\i p
\f0\i0  and 
\f1\i q
\f0\i0  have to be positive. To allow negative numbers, use a mirror. The maximal 
\f1\i p
\f0\i0  value is 10, and the maximal 
\f1\i q
\f0\i0  value is 60. These bounds are arbitrary, but you can get something bigger with braids.\
\
\ul Pretzel links:\ulnone  Up to 12 pretzels are supported. You can enter fairly large numbers in each strand, probably larger than what would be reasonable for calculations.\
\
\ul Braid Code:\ulnone  You can use the letters a up to i to produce a braid word, with capital letters representing the inverse. For example, \cf2 ABCABCABCABCABC\cf0  represents the (4,-5) torus knot. The resulting link will use the standard braid closure. Maybe it would be a nice feature if other closures were supported.\
\
\ul DT Code:\ulnone  You can enter a Dowker-Thistlethwaite code here, for example \cf2 4 6 2\cf0 , or \cf2 4 -6 8 -2\cf0  for a trefoil.\
\
\ul Gauss Code:\ulnone  The accepted format looks like \cf2 1,-2,3,-1,2,-3\cf0  for a trefoil. If you only enter \cf2 1,2,3,1,2,3\cf0  it should also work.\
\
\ul \ulc3 PD Code:\ulnone  You can enter a planar diagram code, something such as \cf4 [[1,5,2,4],[3,1,4,6],[5,3,6,2]]\cf5 . Only the separation of numbers should matter.\cf0 \
\
\ul Alphabetical DT Code:\ulnone  This is some kind of alphabetical version of the Dowker-Thistlethwaite code, which also accepts links. For example, \cf2 lbbjcDFhKLJAbEGI\cf0  gives you a 12 crossing link with two components. I have forgotten how this works, but the first \'91l\'92  (a lower case L, not an upper case i) tells us it is 12 crossings, and the following \'91b\'92 stands for two components.\
\
\ul Concatenate Links:\ulnone  Should do what it says. If you have links you can choose the component, although it may not be obvious to which component a number refers to.\
\
\ul Split Union:\ulnone  You can choose two links, and form their split union.\
\
\ul Mirror Links:\ulnone  Gives you a list of the current links, and you can choose several to be mirrored.\
\
\ul Unlink:\ulnone  You can form an unlink with up to 10 components. If you need more components, try the split union.\
\
\ul Change Orientation:\ulnone  The orientation of a link is somewhat randomly assigned, but here you can change the orientation of some components. You can also drop components altogether.}